How to contribute to DeltaRho / docs-datadr
==========================================

Thank you for sharing your work with the DeltaRho project. We appreciate your contribution!

## Join the developer mailing list

If you're not already on the DeltaRho developers list, take a minute to join.  This is as easy as sending an email to tessera-dev+subscribe@googlegroups.com.
It would be great if you'd introduce yourself to the group but it's not required. You can just let your code do the talking for you if you like.

## Check the issue tracker

Before you do too much work, check the [open issues in the docs-datadr issue tracker](https://github.com/delta-rho/docs-datadr/issues?state=open)
to see if someone else has already filed an issue related to your work or is already working on it. If not, go ahead and
[open a new issue](https://github.com/delta-rho/docs-datadr/issues/new).

## Announce your work on the mailing list

Shoot us a quick email on the mailing list letting us know what you're working on. There
will likely be people on the list who can give you tips about where to find relevant
source or alert you to other planned changes that might effect your work.

## Tips for editing documentation

Our documentation goes through a special formatting procedure to provide a uniform look.  Documentation is generated by editing [markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) in `.Rmd` files, then processing the `.Rmd` files using the [buildDocs](https://github.com/hafen/buildDocs) package.  Please see the "Usage" section in the README at that repository for tips on how build an `index.html` page from your `.Rmd` files.

buildDocs uses [knitr](http://yihui.name/knitr/) so that output of code can be embedded into the documents.  If this is not desired for your documentation, it is not necessary, you can put your code in plain markdown.  Note that some of the code in our documentation depends on having a special environment set up, such as Hadoop and RHIPE.

## Submit your pull request

Github provides a nice [overview on how to create a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request).

Some general rules to follow:

* Do your work in [a fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo) of the docs-datadr repo.
* Create a branch for each feature/bug in docs-datadr that you're working on. These branches are often called "feature"
or "topic" branches.
* Use your feature branch in the pull request. Any changes that you push to your feature branch will automatically
be shown in the pull request.  If your feature branch is not based off the latest master, you will be asked to rebase
it before it is merged.
* If your pull request fixes an issue, reference the issue so that it will [be closed when your pull request is merged](https://github.com/blog/1506-closing-issues-via-pull-requests)
* Keep your pull requests as small as possible. Large pull requests are hard to review. Try to break up your changes
into self-contained and incremental pull requests, if need be, and reference dependent pull requests, e.g. "This pull
request builds on request #92. Please review #92 first."
* The first line of commit messages should be a short (<80 character) summary, followed by an empty line and then,
optionally, any details that you want to share about the commit.
